mind your decisions i'm presh tallwalker
i'm thinking of a sequence of numbers
this sequence of numbers has the
following properties
first a2n is equal to two
multiplied by a n plus one
second a two n plus one is equal to a
two
multiplied by a n minus two
if a7 is equal to 2 and
a1 is between 0 and 1
what is the value of a25
i thank sean from south korea for the
suggestion
a version of this problem appeared on
the csat
pause the video if you'd like to give
this problem a try and when you're ready
keep watching to learn how to solve this
problem
[Music]
so how can we solve this problem let's
first analyze a 25
by the second property of the sequence
a25
is equal to a2 multiplied by a12 minus
2.
we'll then analyze a12 by the first
property of the sequence
this is equal to a2 multiplied by a6
plus one let's now analyze a7
we know its value is equal to two by the
second property of the sequence
it's also equaled a two multiplied by a
three
minus two this implies that a2
a3 is equal to four
from here we can solve for a6 by the
first property of the sequence
a6 is equal to a283 plus one
a two eight three is equal to four which
means a6 is equal to five
we're making good progress on this
problem we've solved for a6
if we could solve for a2 we could then
solve for a12
with the value of a2 and a12 we could
then solve for the value of a25
so let's focus on solving for a2
we know that a2 a3 is equal to 4.
let's focus on a3 by the second property
of the sequence
a3 is equal to a2 a1 minus 2.
then let's focus on a2 by the first
property of the sequence
a2 is equal to a2 multiplied by a1
plus 1. we know the product of a2 and a3
is equal to four so let's take the
product of these two
equations the result is the following
equation
we can then simplify this equation by
expanding we end up with a quadratic
equation
where the quadratic variable is the term
a2
multiplied by a1 we can simplify this
equation
we can then factor into linear terms
we can then solve this equation we'll
get two possibilities
a two multiplied by a one is equal to
three
and a two multiplied by a one is equal
to negative two
let's further analyze these
possibilities
in order to do that we'll look at a2
let's solve for a2 in this equation
we'll first
subtract a2 a1 from both sides of the
equation
we'll then factor a two and then we'll
divide both sides of the equation
by one minus a one now recall that a one
is between zero and one this means one
minus a one
will be a positive number and thus the
reciprocal of 1 minus a1 is a positive
number
consequently a2 will be a positive
since a1 and a2 are both positive
numbers that means
a 2 multiplied by a1 is a positive
number
we thus can eliminate the possibility
that their product is a negative number
and we eliminate the value of negative
two
we thus have a2 multiplied by a1 is
equal to three
we can then look at the equation for a2
to get that a2
is equal to 3 plus 1 which is equal to
4.
we can now solve for the value of a25
we first calculate a 12 which will be
equal to 4
multiplied by 5 plus 1 which is equal to
21.
we can then calculate the value of a 25
which is equal to a2
multiplied by a12 minus 2 and that's
equal to 4
multiplied by 21 minus 2 and that's
equal to 82
and that's our answer
thanks for making us one of the best
communities on youtube
see you next episode of mind your
decisions where we solve the world's
problems
one video at a time